root@Amit:~# cd /tmp/actianx-11.2.0-100-com-linux-ingbuild-x86_64-15836/
root@Amit:/tmp/actianx-11.2.0-100-com-linux-ingbuild-x86_64-15836# ./install.sh -no32bit -licdir /tmp/ A3 /opt/Actian/IngresIII/
Actian X 11.2.0 Installer

Actian X 11.2.0 

will be installed with the following configuration:

II_SYSTEM: /opt/Actian/IngresIII/
II_INSTALLATION: A3
Instance Owner: ingres

Creating /opt/Actian/IngresIII/...
Beginning installation...
ACTIAN CORPORATION
CUSTOMER LICENSE AND SUPPORT SERVICES AGREEMENT

PLEASE READ THIS AGREEMENT CAREFULLY BEFORE 
DOWNLOADING OR INSTALLING THE SOFTWARE.

This Customer License and Support Services Agreement 
("Agreement") is a legal agreement between the end 
user downloading or installing the software ("You" 
or "Your") and Actian Corporation, with its 
principal place of business located at 710 Hesters 
Crossing Rd., Suite 250, Round Rock, TX 78681, 
("Us," "Our," or "We"). IF YOU ARE ENTERING INTO 
THIS AGREEMENT ON BEHALF OF A COMPANY OR AN ENTITY, 
YOU REPRESENT THAT YOU ARE THE EMPLOYEE OR AGENT 
OF SUCH COMPANY OR ENTITY AND YOU HAVE THE 
AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND LEGALLY 
BIND YOUR COMPANY OR ENTITY. For purposes of this 
Agreement, "You" or "Your" includes you and any 
of your companies or entities that you have bound 
under this Agreement. BY DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING 
OR USING THE SOFTWARE OR BY CLICKING THE 
"I ACCEPT" BUTTON BELOW (OR TYPING "Y" OR "YES" 
IF YOU ARE INSTEAD ASKED FOR A "Y OR N" RESPONSE), 
YOU ARE AGREEING TO BE BOUND BY THIS AGREEMENT. 
IF YOU DO NOT ACCEPT THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT, 
THEN YOU MUST CLICK ON THE "DECLINE" OR "I DO NOT 
ACCEPT" BUTTON BELOW (OR TYPE "N" OR "NO" IF YOU 
ARE INSTEAD ASKED FOR A "Y OR N" RESPONSE) 
AND YOU MAY NOT DOWNLOAD, INSTALL OR USE THE 
SOFTWARE. This Agreement governs the purchase and 
use of the software and services described in an 
Order (defined below). The "Effective Date" shall be 
deemed the date you click on the "Accept" button 
below.

1.  DEFINITIONS. 

1.1  "Documentation" means the user documentation 
supplied by Us with the Product.

1.2  "Customer Subsidiaries" means those companies 
which are Your wholly-owned subsidiary on the 
Effective Date of this Agreement. Wholly-owned 
subsidiary shall be defined as an entity in which 
You own a 100% shareholding.

1.3  "Order" means a document, typically titled 
"Order Confirmation," executed by the parties, or 
(in the absence of an executed document) an invoice 
issued by Actian, that refers to this Agreement and 
describes in greater detail Your order-specific 
information and use restrictions including, but not 
limited to: Your billing information, lists of 
Products and Services ordered, permitted number of 
cores with which the Products can be used, and 
pricing. Such Order(s) is (are) hereby incorporated 
into this Agreement by reference.

1.4  "Outsourcer" means a third party engaged by You 
for internal data processing, consulting, product 
customization, or internal information management.

1.5  "Products" means the machine-readable object 
code of the software programs specified in an Order, 
together with any Documentation and Updates thereto.

1.6  "Subscription Term" means one year from the 
date of the applicable Order or as otherwise 
specified in the Order or an addendum to this 
Agreement.

1.7  "Support Services" means Product support 
services.

1.8  "Updates" means any update, release, or 
enhancement to the Products that is provided to You 
at Our discretion under Support Services.

1.9  "Warranty Period" means thirty (30) days from 
the date of initial delivery to You of the 
applicable Product (excluding Updates).

2.  LICENSE. 

2.1  License Grant. Provided that You comply with 
the terms and conditions of this Agreement, 
including, but not limited to the conditions stated 
in Sections 2.2(i) - 2.2(iv), We grant You a 
limited, non-exclusive, non-sublicensable and non-
transferable license to use the Products for Your 
business purposes during the Subscription Term in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of this 
Agreement with any restrictions stated in an Order, 
such as the number of copies of the Products made 
or used by You, installed on Your workstations or 
servers, or on the number of Your users or the 
number of seats, sockets or cores accessing or 
using the Products. For the avoidance of doubt, 
You have no right or license under this Agreement 
to any use, copy, instance or version of a Product 
or other software program, or support services for 
a particular Product, unless such use, copy, 
instance or version and such support services are 
covered in a then-current Order. You must ensure 
that any limits on the number of cores/CPUs are not 
exceeded by platform virtualization or other means. 
Customer Subsidiaries may place Order(s) under this
 Agreement, provided that such Order(s) reference 
this Agreement, and shall have the benefit of the 
Support Services as may be described in such 
Order(s), provided that:

i) You will ensure that each of such Customer 
Subsidiaries is aware of and complies with the 
terms of this Agreement as though such Customer 
Subsidiaries were You, and You are liable and 
responsible for their acts and omissions; and 
ii) You will indemnify Us and keep Us fully and 
effectively indemnified against all costs, claims, 
demands, expenses and liabilities of whatsoever 
nature which We may sustain as a result of a 
failure by any Customer Subsidiaries to comply 
with the terms of this Agreement.

2.2  Product Use Rights. The license granted in 
Section 2.1, above, is subject to the following 
conditions:

i) License Restrictions. Except as expressly 
permitted by this Agreement, You may not: 
(i) distribute, lease, loan, sell, encumber, 
sublicense, or otherwise transfer a Product; 
(ii) permit third-party access to or use of the 
Products, or use, access, or allow access to the 
Products in any way to benefit third parties, 
including, but not limited to operating the 
Products in a service bureau, SaaS, ASP, or 
other similar hosted environment; (iii) use a 
Product to provide or operate hosting or 
Application Service Provider (ASP) services, 
Software as a Service, service bureau, 
marketing, training, outsourcing services, or 
consulting services, or any other commercial 
service related to the Products; (iv) use a 
Product to develop a product which is 
competitive with any of the software programs 
manufactured and/or marketed by Us; (v) use a 
Product in any environment in which You deploy 
an open source version of the Product; (vi) use 
the Products beyond the scope or term of any 
license; or (vii) use the Product to process 
data for third parties (e.g., performing data 
migrations, conversions, or transformations 
for Your customers). Actian Vector (formerly 
Vectorwise) shall not be used as a transactional 
or OLTP database. You shall notify Us if You 
become aware of any unauthorized third party 
access to, or use of, a Product.

ii) Outsourcers. You may permit access to, and 
use of, the Products by an Outsourcer, provided 
that: (i) the Outsourcer agrees to comply with 
the terms of this Agreement and to access and 
use the Products solely for purposes of 
rendering services to You; and (ii) the total 
number of licenses used by You and Outsourcer 
must not exceed the scope or number of licenses 
purchased. You shall be responsible and liable 
for Outsourcer's compliance with the terms of 
this Agreement. Upon completion of Your services 
by Outsourcer, You shall, upon Our request, 
certify in writing that Outsourcer has un-
installed and destroyed all copies of Products 
within thirty (30) days of such completion of 
services, and You will give Us any reasonable 
assistance We may request to ensure Outsourcer 
complies with this clause.

iii) Duplication of Product. You may make Product 
copies equal to the number of licensed copies 
expressly authorized under this Agreement plus a 
reasonable number of archival copies for inactive 
backup purposes, provided that all Product 
copyright, trademark, patent, and related 
proprietary notices incorporated in or affixed to 
the Product shall be duplicated by You on all 
copies or extracts thereof and shall not be 
altered, removed, or obliterated. Except as 
required to be permitted by applicable law, 
reverse compiling (including reverse compiling 
to ensure interoperability), reverse engineering 
and other source code derivation of the Product 
is prohibited. If You wish to exercise any right 
to reverse engineer to ensure interoperability in 
accordance with applicable law, You shall first 
provide written notice to Us and permit Us, at 
Our discretion, to make an offer to provide 
information and assistance reasonably required to 
ensure Product interoperability with Your other 
products for a fee to be mutually agreed upon 
(if any).

iv) Product Ownership and Restrictions. The copies 
of Products provided hereunder are licensed, not 
sold, and all intellectual property rights and 
title to the Products shall remain with Us and Our 
suppliers and no interest or ownership therein is 
conveyed to You. No right to create a copyrightable 
work, whether joint or unitary, is granted or 
implied; this includes works that modify (even for 
purposes of error correction), adapt, or translate 
the Product or create derivative works, 
compilations, or collective works therefrom, except 
as necessary to configure the Product using the 
menus, options and tools provided for such purposes 
and contained in the Product. You shall not attempt 
to circumvent any user limits or other license, 
timing or use restrictions that are built in to the 
Products. Certain items of software code provided 
along with the Products are subject to "open source" 
licenses ("Third Party Code") provided with the 
Products. The Third Party Code is not subject to the 
terms and conditions of this Agreement, except for 
Sections 5 and 6 of this Agreement. Nothing in this 
Agreement limits Your rights under, or grants Your 
rights that supersede the terms and conditions of 
any applicable license for the Third Party Code, 
including any rights to copy, modify or distribute 
Third Party Code under the applicable license. You 
are hereby notified that the Products may contain 
time-out devices, counter devices, and/or other 
devices intended to ensure the limits of a 
particular license will not be exceeded 
("Limiting Devices"). If the Products do contain 
Limiting Devices, We shall ensure that You receive 
any keys or other materials necessary to use the 
Products to the limits of Your license.

2.3  Product Export. Any person or entity exporting 
or re-exporting Products or services directly or 
indirectly and via any means, including electronic 
transfer, is wholly responsible for doing so in 
accordance with the U.S. Export Administration 
Regulations and the laws of host countries and 
You agree to comply strictly with all such laws 
and regulations. We assume no responsibility or 
liability for Your failure to obtain any 
necessary export approvals. Specifically, no 
Product or services may be exported to embargoed 
or otherwise restricted countries or end-users. 
This provision shall survive the expiration or 
earlier termination of this Agreement.

3.  SUPPORT AND ADDITIONAL SERVICES. 

3.1  Support Services. The details of the Support 
Services can be found at http://supportservices.
actian.com/support-services/support#policy. 
We may suspend or terminate Support Services for 
all Product(s) in the event that You do not pay 
fees for Support Services when due. If You 
purchase Support Services for a Product, then You 
shall purchase Support Services for all licenses 
and copies of such Product. You may not use or 
access support services (i) for a software product 
not covered in a then-current Order, or (ii) for 
a Product not covered by a then-current paid 
Actian support plan. You may not use or access 
support services for the benefit of a third party, 
or provide access to or permit use of support 
services by a third party.

3.2  Additional Services. Consulting services or 
training may be obtained by You on an as-available 
basis and at mutually agreed rates in accordance 
with a separate agreement. Should We agree to 
provide consulting services, the payment of the 
Product license and Support Services fees under 
this Agreement shall not be contingent under any 
circumstances upon the performance of any such 
services including installation and 
implementation services.

4.  FEES; TAXES; PAYMENT TERMS; PURCHASE ORDERS; 
SHIPPING.

4.1  Fees. Fees or other charges shall be as 
specified in an Order. All amounts payable under 
this Agreement shall be payable in advance, and 
shall be non-refundable and not subject to set off 
or deduction by You. In the event that You wish to 
renew the subscription of a Product, the applicable 
price shall be that stated within the then-current 
Actian price list, unless otherwise agreed between 
the parties.

4.2  Taxes. Our fees are exclusive of, and You 
are responsible for, duties and taxes (other 
than taxes on Our income).

4.3  Invoicing and Payment. All payments of fees 
and charges under this Agreement shall be made in 
U.S. dollars within thirty (30) days of the date 
of the applicable invoice sent to You by Us. Any 
amount payable by You to Us hereunder which is 
past due may be subject to a late payment charge 
equal to one and a half percent (1.5%) per month, 
or the highest rate permitted by law, whichever 
is less. The receipt or request for payment of 
such amounts shall not prejudice Our rights with 
respect to Your failure to pay on the due date. 

4.4  Orders and Shipping. We have no obligation 
to accept Purchase Orders, including without 
limitation Purchase Orders for renewal of Support 
Services. Any fulfillment of Purchase Orders 
shall be solely in accordance with the terms of 
this Agreement and We expressly reject any 
conflicting terms and conditions in Your 
Purchase Order. Products and Documentation are 
shipped FOB origin, Our site. Delivery will be 
by electronic or physical means, at Our election, 
and all Products shall be deemed accepted by You 
immediately upon the earlier of download or 
receipt from Us.

5.  LIMITED WARRANTIES. 

5.1  We warrant that, during the Warranty Period, 
the Products (excluding Updates) will operate 
substantially in conformity with the applicable 
Documentation. Updates are not included within 
the definition of Products for the purposes of 
any Warranty or Warranty Period.

5.2  Within the Warranty Period, if You detect 
a defect in a Product's physical media, You may 
return the defective media to Us and We will 
replace it free of charge.

5.3  Provided that We are notified in writing of 
a Product's non-conformance with the warranty 
set forth in section 5.1 within the applicable 
Warranty Period, We shall, at Our option: 
a) repair or replace the defective Product, or 
b) refund the license fees paid for the Product 
in exchange for a return of the defective Product. 
In the event of a refund Your license to use the 
Product will immediately expire. This Section 5.3 
is Your exclusive remedy for breach of the 
limited warranty in Section 5.1. The above 
warranties specifically exclude defects resulting 
from accident, abuse, misapplication or 
unauthorized repair, modifications, enhancements 
and installation in an incompatible environment. 
We do not warrant that use of the Products will 
be uninterrupted or error free.

5.4  EXCEPT FOR EXPRESS WARRANTIES STATED IN THIS 
SECTION 5 AND TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY 
LAW, THE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES ARE PROVIDED "AS IS," 
AND WE, AND OUR SUPPLIERS DISCLAIM ALL OTHER 
WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS, WHETHER EXPRESS OR 
IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, 
ANY IMPLIED WARRANTY (I) OF MERCHANTABILITY OR 
SUITABILITY, (II) OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR 
PURPOSE, OR (III) OF NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY 
RIGHTS.

6.  LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. 

To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, 
in no event will We or Our suppliers be liable to 
You or any third party for any indirect, special, 
incidental, consequential or punitive damages 
arising out of or related to this Agreement, 
including without limitation, any lost profits or 
revenues, loss or inaccuracy of any data, or cost 
of substitute goods, regardless of the theory of 
liability (including negligence) and even if We 
have been advised of the possibility of such 
damages. We and Our suppliers' aggregate liability 
to You or any third party for any cause whatsoever 
shall not exceed the total fees paid by You to Us 
under this Agreement during the 12 months 
preceding the date that the claim arose. 
In no event shall You raise any claim under this 
Agreement more than 2 years after (i) the discovery 
of the circumstances giving rise to such claim; or 
(ii) the effective date of the termination of this 
Agreement. The limitations in this Section shall 
apply even if any remedy fails of its essential 
purpose. Nothing in this Agreement shall exclude 
or limit either party's liability for death or 
personal injury caused by that party's negligent 
act or omission or by willful default.

7.  THIRD PARTY CLAIMS. 

7.1  We shall: (i) defend, or at Our option settle, 
any legal proceeding brought against You to the 
extent that it is based on a claim that a Product 
infringes a third-party patent, trademark or 
copyright of the country in which You take delivery 
of the Product; and (ii) pay all damages and costs 
finally awarded against You by a court of 
competent jurisdiction to the extent attributable 
to such a claim or agreed to by way of a settlement 
entered into by Us, provided that: You (i) notify 
Us promptly of each such claim; (ii) give Us sole 
control of the defense and/or settlement of the 
claim; (iii) fully cooperate with Us in the defense 
or settlement of the claim; (iv) mitigate such 
damages and costs as far as is reasonably possible; 
and (v) take no action that may prejudice Our 
ability to defend the claim.

7.2  If all or any part of the Product is, or in 
Our opinion is likely to become, the subject of a 
claim of infringement, We may at Our sole discretion: 
(i) procure for You the right to use the Product or 
the affected part thereof; (ii) replace the Product 
or affected part with other software that has the 
same or additional functionality; (iii) modify the 
Product or affected part to make it non-infringing; 
or (iv) if none of the foregoing remedies is 
commercially feasible as determined by Us in Our sole 
discretion, terminate Your license to the Product and 
upon return of the Product, refund a pro-rated (over 
a 12 month period on a straight-line basis) portion 
of the payments paid by You to Us over the preceding 
12 months for the Product or the affected part.

7.3  We shall have no liability or other obligations 
to the extent a claim is based on: (i) failure to use 
an Update provided by Us, if infringement could have 
been avoided by use of the latest version of the 
Products; (ii) combination, operation, or use of 
Products with other products not provided by Us, 
if such infringement would have been avoided in 
the absence of such combination, operation, or use; 
(iii) Your use of Product in any manner inconsistent 
with the applicable license terms and conditions; 
(iv) modification, alteration, or enhancement to the 
Product not performed or expressly authorized by Us; 
(v) the furnishing to You of any information, service 
or technical support by a third party; (vi) non-
licensed use of the Products; or (vii) Our compliance 
with Your designs, specifications or instructions.

THE FOREGOING PROVISIONS OF THIS SECTION STATE THE 
ENTIRE LIABILITY AND OBLIGATION OF US AND YOUR 
EXCLUSIVE REMEDY FOR CLAIMS OF INFRINGEMENT OF 
THIRD PARTY RIGHTS.

8.  TERM AND TERMINATION. 

8.1  Unless sooner terminated as provided below, 
the term of this Agreement shall begin on the 
Effective Date and continue for one year and 
then automatically renew for successive one-year 
terms, unless either party notifies the other 
party in writing of its intent not to renew at 
least ninety days prior to the expiration of the 
initial or then-current renewal term. If the 
Agreement term is not renewed, it shall be deemed 
to expire upon the earlier of (i) one year from 
the end of the then-current term or (ii) the end 
of the last remaining Subscription Term. If a 
Product is obtained under a perpetual license, 
the Agreement shall be deemed not to expire for 
purposes of that Product only.

8.2  Notwithstanding the foregoing, either party 
may terminate this Agreement or an Order (i) by 
written notice of breach of the Agreement or 
such Order, provided the other party fails to 
cure such breach within thirty days after such 
notice, or (ii) forthwith if the other party makes 
an assignment for the benefit of creditors or 
proceedings are commenced by or for such other 
party under any bankruptcy, insolvency, or 
debtor's relief law. Upon termination or 
expiration for any reason, all rights (including 
all license rights) and obligations shall 
terminate except as provided in this Section 8.2 
(and Section 8.1 in the case of expiration only), 
and such termination or expiration shall not 
relieve You from Your obligation to pay fees 
that remain unpaid and shall not limit either 
party from pursuing other available remedies. 
Upon termination or expiration of this Agreement 
or any part thereof, We shall have no obligation 
to refund to You any fees paid by You. If an 
Order is terminated or expired, You must certify 
in writing to Us that You have immediately un-
installed and destroyed or returned all copies 
of the Product within thirty (30) days of such 
termination/expiration. The following Sections 
survive termination or expiration of this 
Agreement: 1, 2.1(i) and (ii), 2.2(iv), 4, 5.4, 
6, 8, and 9.

9.  GENERAL. 

9.1  Confidential Information. Each party receiving 
Confidential Information ("Recipient") shall retain 
in confidence and require its employees, agents, and 
contractors to retain in confidence all Confidential 
Information of the other party ("Discloser"). 
"Confidential Information" means (i) for Us: the 
terms and conditions of this Agreement, all 
financial terms and conditions contained in Our 
quotation, and the Products as well as results of 
any Product benchmark or similar tests (whether 
performed by Us, You, or any third party) involving 
Products or Support Services; and (ii) for either 
party: any information, in written or other tangible 
form, which has been conspicuously marked by 
Discloser as "confidential" or "proprietary" or if 
not so marked, if it should reasonably be regarded 
as confidential due to the nature of the information 
being disclosed. Recipient shall protect Discloser's 
Confidential Information in the same manner 
Recipient protects its own Confidential Information 
of similar importance, but in no event with less 
than reasonable care. Confidential Information 
shall remain the sole property of the Discloser and 
shall not be disclosed to any third party (except, 
solely to employees, attorneys, consultants, and 
subsidiaries, who need to know and are bound by a 
written agreement with Recipient to maintain the 
confidentiality of such Confidential Information 
in a manner consistent with this Agreement) or 
used except as permitted under this Agreement. 
Confidential Information shall not include any 
information that: (i) is or becomes publicly 
known without the Recipient's breach of any 
obligations owed to the Discloser; (ii) is 
rightfully disclosed to the Recipient from a 
source other than the Discloser without a 
breach of an obligation of confidentiality; 
or (iii) is independently developed by the 
Recipient without any access to the Discloser's 
Confidential Information. Notwithstanding the 
foregoing, We may disclose that You are Our 
customer. In addition, either party may disclose 
information in compliance with applicable law or 
a court order, provided the Discloser is given 
reasonably prompt notice thereof and the 
Recipient provides cooperation and assistance 
in any attempt to prevent or limit such disclosure. 
The obligations set forth herein with respect to 
Confidential Information shall continue in full 
force and effect for a period of three (3) years 
after the date of termination of this Agreement.

9.2  Relationship of the Parties. This Agreement 
is not intended to and shall not create a 
relationship such as a partnership, franchise, 
joint venture, fiduciary, agency or employment 
relationship. Neither party may act in a manner 
that expresses or implies a relationship other 
than that of independent contractor, nor bind 
the other party.

9.3  Governing Law and Venue. Any action arising 
out of or related to this Agreement shall be 
governed by California law and controlling U.S. 
federal law, and the choice of law rules of any 
jurisdiction shall not apply. The parties agree 
that the United Nations Convention on Contracts 
for the International Sale of Goods shall not 
apply to this Agreement. All disputes arising out 
of or relating to this Agreement shall be brought 
exclusively in the federal courts located in the 
Northern District of California or the state 
courts located in Santa Clara County, California, 
and the parties agree to submit to the exclusive 
jurisdiction of such courts. Notwithstanding the 
foregoing, a party may enforce any judgment 
rendered by such court in any court of competent 
jurisdiction, and Actian may seek injunctive or 
other equitable relief in any jurisdiction in 
order to protect its intellectual property rights.

9.4  Assignment. You shall not assign or transfer 
this Agreement or any rights or obligations 
hereunder, including by operation of law or a 
merger, acquisition, change of control, or division 
of a LLC without the prior written consent of Actian. 
Any attempted assignment or transfer by You in 
violation of the foregoing will be void. For clarity, 
Actian may assign this Agreement without consent to 
an affiliated entity or in connection with a merger, 
acquisition, or purchase of fifty percent or more of 
its assets. Subject to the above, this Agreement will
 bind and inure to the benefit of each party's 
permitted successors and assigns. 

9.5  Severability. If any provision of this Agreement 
is declared unlawful, void, or unenforceable, then 
that provision shall be limited to the extent 
enforceable, or otherwise severed, and will not 
affect the validity and enforceability of the 
remaining provisions. 

9.6  Audits. During the term of this Agreement and 
continuing until two years after termination or 
expiration, You shall keep and retain complete and 
accurate records regarding Your use of the Products.

i) Self-Audits. To help manage Your use of the 
Products and Your compliance with this Agreement, 
You agree to perform a self-audit upon 10 working 
days prior written notice from Us, on the self-
audit form made available by Us. If Your self-audit 
form reveals a discrepancy that You have previously 
or are currently using more of Our Products and 
Support Services than You have valid Orders or 
licenses for, You must pay Us the unpaid amounts at 
the same time as returning the self-audit form to 
Us. In the event that You are late in submitting a 
self-audit form We may delay accepting orders 
and/or suspend Support Services until We receive 
the self-audit form and We may instigate the Formal 
Audit process defined below.

ii) Formal Audits. We, or Our designated agent, may, 
upon five (5) working days prior written notice to 
You, inspect any of Your facilities where Products 
are used and audit records for the purpose of 
confirming Your use of the Products and Your 
compliance with this Agreement. We may perform only 
one formal audit per twelve (12) month period 
unless a previous audit reveals a discrepancy. 
Our audit shall be performed at Our sole expense; 
provided however, that if, as a result of Our 
audit, it is determined that You have underpaid Us 
by more than 5% of the amount owed during the 
period audited, then You shall bear the reasonable 
cost of Our audit. In the event of any underpayment, 
You shall pay all past-due fees immediately in 
accordance with the terms of this Agreement. 
This section survives termination of this Agreement 
for two (2) years.

9.7  Force Majeure. Except with respect to the 
obligation to pay fees when due hereunder, neither 
party shall be deemed in default of this Agreement 
because of a delay or failure in performance of 
its obligation resulting from any cause beyond 
its reasonable control (a "Force Majeure"), provided 
it gives reasonably prompt notice of the Force 
Majeure condition to the other party and uses 
reasonable efforts to mitigate the delay or failure.

9.8  Notices. Any notices required or permitted to 
be given hereunder shall be delivered by personal 
delivery, express courier, or recorded delivery, 
postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to a 
party's address set forth in an Order, or if to 
You to Your headquarters or to Us to: Actian 
Corporation, Attn: Legal Department, 710 Hesters 
Crossing Rd., Suite 250, Round Rock, TX 78681. 
A notice shall be deemed effective when actually 
delivered. Either party may change its address 
for purposes of this Agreement by written notice 
given in accordance herewith.

9.9  Marketing. Except if required to do so by 
the Securities Exchange Commission, regulatory 
authority or similar body, neither party shall 
provide copies of this Agreement or otherwise 
disclose its terms to any third party, without 
the prior written consent of the other, which 
consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or 
delayed. The parties agree that within thirty 
(30) days of the Effective Date We may issue 
a press announcement describing the relationship 
of the parties. You agree to allow Us to reference 
and identify You, and use Your logo in Our 
advertising, sales promotion, press releases, 
public filings, website usage, and other 
publicity matters relating to the Products 
furnished and/or the related Support Services 
performed pursuant to this Agreement, so long 
as such use is without any modification of Your 
name, mark, or logo.

You agree to act as a "Reference Account" for 
Us. In such cases where You have agreed to 
serve as a "Reference Account," We shall be 
allowed to refer other customers, potential 
customers, press, analysts, etc., to Your 
executives, who are familiar with Your 
relationship with Us, to act as a reference for Us.

9.10 U.S. Government End Users. The software is 
"commercial items" as that term is defined at 
48 C.F.R. 2.101, consisting of "commercial computer 
software" and "commercial computer software 
documentation" as such terms are used in 
48 C.F.R. 12.212. Consistent with 48 C.F.R. 12.212 
and 48 C.F.R. 227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4, all 
U.S. Government end users acquire the software 
with only those rights set forth under this 
Agreement. Any technical data provided that is 
not covered by the above provisions shall be 
deemed "technical data-commercial items" pursuant 
to 48 C.F.R. 252.227.7015(a). Any use, modification, 
reproduction, release, performance, display or 
disclosure of such technical data shall be governed 
by the terms of 48 C.F.R. 252.227.7015(b).

9.11 High Risk Activities. The Products are not fault-
tolerant and not designed, manufactured or intended 
for use or resale as on-line control equipment in 
hazardous environments requiring fail-safe performance, 
such as in the operation of nuclear facilities, 
aircraft navigation or communication systems, air 
traffic control, direct life support machines, or 
weapons systems, in which the failure of the Product 
could lead directly to death, personal injury, or 
severe physical or environmental damage ("High Risk 
Activities"). We and Our suppliers specifically 
disclaim any express or implied warranty of fitness 
for High Risk Activities

9.12 Third Party Rights. Notwithstanding any other 
provision in this Agreement, nothing in this 
Agreement shall create or confer any rights or 
other benefits in favor of any person not a party 
hereto, except with respect to Microsoft software 
included in the Products. Microsoft is a third party 
beneficiary with the right to enforce its right in 
its software.

9.13 Injunctive Relief. You acknowledge that the 
Products contain Our and Our licensors' valuable 
trade secrets and proprietary information and that 
any actual or threatened disclosure or unauthorized 
use or distribution of the Products or Our or Our 
licensors' Confidential Information will constitute 
immediate and irreparable harm to Us for which 
monetary damages would be an inadequate remedy and 
entitle Us to immediate injunctive relief without 
the need to post a bond or show actual monetary 
damages.

9.14 Integration and Amendment. This Agreement 
constitutes the entire agreement between the parties 
and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous 
conditions, agreements, communications or 
representations, whether oral or written, relating 
to the subject matter hereof. Neither party has 
relied on any statement or representation by an 
employee or agent of the other party in entering 
into this Agreement. Any additional or different 
terms in Your documents (including any terms 
contained on Purchase Orders) shall not apply and 
are hereby deemed to be material alterations and 
notice of objection to, and rejection of them is 
hereby given. Except as permitted herein, this 
Agreement may not be modified or any term or 
condition waived except in writing signed by a 
duly authorized representative of each party. 
No waiver of any breach of any provision of this 
Agreement shall constitute a waiver of any prior, 
concurrent or subsequent breach of the same or any 
other provision hereof. Headings are for convenience 
only and shall not affect the interpretation of any 
provision hereunder.

YOU ACKNOWLEDGE THAT YOU HAVE READ AND UNDERSTOOD 
THIS AGREEMENT AND HEREBY AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THE 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT BY CLICKING 
ON THE "ACCEPT" BUTTON BELOW (OR TYPING "Y" OR 
"YES" IF YOU ARE INSTEAD ASKED FOR A "Y OR N" 
RESPONSE).

Updated October 2022
Do you accept this license agreement? (y or n): 
Do you accept this license agreement? (y or n): 
Do you accept this license agreement? (y or n): 
Do you accept this license agreement? (y or n): 
Do you accept this license agreement? (y or n): 
Do you accept this license agreement? (y or n): 
Do you accept this license agreement? (y or n): 
Do you accept this license agreement? (y or n): 
Do you accept this license agreement? (y or n): 
Do you accept this license agreement? (y or n): 
Do you accept this license agreement? (y or n): 
Do you accept this license agreement? (y or n): 
Do you accept this license agreement? (y or n): 
Do you accept this license agreement? (y or n): 
Do you accept this license agreement? (y or n): 
Do you accept this license agreement? (y or n): 
Do you accept this license agreement? (y or n): y

Products selected:  1     Disk space required:    0
 Support modules : 35                           650M
                   --     Temporary storage  :   82M
                                                ---- 
            Total: 36                           733M

Reading from distribution medium... (This may take a few minutes)
Verifying product: Query and Reporting Runtime...
Verifying product: Terminal Monitors...
Verifying product: Actian X DBMS...
Verifying product: Actian X Networking...
Verifying product: Actian X Data Access Server...
Verifying product: Actian X Star Distributed DBMS...
Verifying support module: Application-By-Forms...
Verifying support module: basic...
Verifying support module: config...
Verifying support module: dbatools...
Verifying support module: demodb...
Verifying support module: Embedded SQL for Ada...
Verifying support module: Embedded SQL for C...
Verifying support module: Embedded SQL for COBOL...
Verifying support module: Embedded SQL for FORTRAN...
Verifying support module: Embedded SQL for C++...
Verifying support module: esqlsup...
Verifying support module: formtool...
Verifying product: Actian X ODBC Driver...
Verifying support module: generr...
Verifying product: INGRES 6.x Compatible Message Files...
Verifying product: Ingres DTP for Tuxedo...
Verifying support module: mgmtsvc...
Verifying support module: montools...
Verifying product: Actian X Object Management...
Verifying product: Actian X Protocol Bridge...
Verifying support module: rmcmd...
Verifying support module: setupsup...
Verifying product: Actian X Replicator...
Verifying support module: uadtsup...
Verifying product: Actian X C2 Security Auditing...
Verifying support module: Vision...
Moving files for product: Query and Reporting Runtime...
Moving files for product: Terminal Monitors...
Moving files for product: Actian X DBMS...
Moving files for product: Actian X Networking...
Moving files for product: Actian X Data Access Server...
Moving files for product: Actian X Star Distributed DBMS...
Moving files for support module: Application-By-Forms...
Moving files for support module: basic...
Moving files for support module: config...
Moving files for support module: dbatools...
Moving files for support module: demodb...
Moving files for support module: Embedded SQL for Ada...
Moving files for support module: Embedded SQL for C...
Moving files for support module: Embedded SQL for COBOL...
Moving files for support module: Embedded SQL for FORTRAN...
Moving files for support module: Embedded SQL for C++...
Moving files for support module: esqlsup...
Moving files for support module: formtool...
Moving files for product: Actian X ODBC Driver...
Moving files for support module: generr...
Moving files for product: INGRES 6.x Compatible Message Files...
Moving files for product: Ingres DTP for Tuxedo...
Moving files for support module: mgmtsvc...
Moving files for support module: montools...
Moving files for product: Actian X Object Management...
Moving files for product: Actian X Protocol Bridge...
Moving files for support module: rmcmd...
Moving files for support module: setupsup...
Moving files for product: Actian X Replicator...
Moving files for support module: uadtsup...
Moving files for product: Actian X C2 Security Auditing...
Moving files for support module: Vision...
Writing installation descriptor file...
Setting up product: Terminal Monitors...
Setting up product: Actian X DBMS...
Setting up product: Actian X Networking...
Setting up product: Actian X Data Access Server...
Setting up product: Actian X Star Distributed DBMS...
Setting up support module: Application-By-Forms...
Setting up support module: esqlsup...
Setting up product: Actian X ODBC Driver...
Setting up product: Ingres DTP for Tuxedo...
Setting up product: Actian X Protocol Bridge...
Setting up product: Actian X Replicator...
Setting up product: Actian X C2 Security Auditing...
All installed products are now available for use.
Writing installation descriptor file...

Successfully generated /opt/Actian/IngresIII//ingres/files/rcfiles/ingresA3.service

To install copy this to /usr/lib/systemd/system/ingresA3.service or run:

   mksystemd -i -s rdbms

you will need to run this as root

Actian X/ingstart

Checking host "Amit" for system resources required to run
Actian X...

Your system has sufficient resources to run
Actian X.


Starting your Actian X installation...

Starting the Name Server...

Allocating shared memory for Logging and Locking Systems...

Starting the Recovery Server...
II_DBMS_SERVER = 38037

Starting the Archiver Process...

Starting DBMS Server (default)...
II_DBMS_SERVER = 43881

Starting Net Server (default)...
GCC Server = 34123
    TCP_IP port = A3 (17304)

Starting Data Access Server (default)...
DAS Server = 35965
    TCP_IP port = A37 (17311)


Starting Star Server (default)...
II_DBMS_SERVER = 45907

Starting the Visual DBA Remote Command Server...

Starting Remote Manager Server... 

Actian X installation successfully started.
Building the authentication validation program 'ingvalidpam'.
Could not compile ingvalidpam: Using executable from the distribution instead.
Executable successfully installed.
Installing Director...

Director successfully installed under:

    /opt/Actian/Director

DBMS authentication has been enabled for this instance of:

    Actian X

To allow remote access to as user:

    'ingres'

a DBMS password must be set.

Actian X 11.2.0

has been successfully installed.

Please refer to the Getting Started section in the Readme file for
the next steps.

Verifying installation....
OK!

